[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: So the last little
mini lesson here is Ember.Object and
Simple Properties.
So Ember.Object is the base
class of most everything.
The router is an Ember.Object routes also
component services, Ember data models.
It's all built on this, and to get and
set properties you use this.get and
this.set.
I'll explain why as we dive in a little
deeper, but that is the mechanism.
>> Speaker 2: I find myself using that
only in tests when I
wanna stub something out.
Are there other good use cases for
actually instantiating Ember.Object?
>> Mike North: So, when I'm talking about,
I understand that many people
don't end up directly using Ember.Object,
but an alternate title for
this section might be Common
Functionality You Should Be Aware of
Between All of
the Things We're Talking About Today.
And this is, we are dealing
directly with the base class,
not dealing with the routeness of route.
So, this is the basic idea here.
We can have a property
called firstName right?
And in this case I am just creating
an instance of an Ember.Object,
assigning a property with
a value at instantiation time.
And then you can see that I can call .get
and retrieve the value of the property.
>> Mike North: So
set just is a two argument method and
it's property key and new value.
>> Mike North: And last thing,
actually I have couple more things here.
So properties can be deeply
nested in a hierarchy, and
all you need to do to directly
access first within name
is get the property name.first.
And so this allows you to be
much more concise especially if
what you're getting are other objects
that have other properties on them.
You don't have to do this .get .get .get,
that can all be chained together just
in terms of describing
the property that you want to get.
>> Mike North: And the last thing I
think you'll need to be aware of for
what we're about to do is you have to
treat arrays a little bit differently.
And the reason is that Ember needs
to be able to observe arrays.
And in order to do so,
we need to use the appropriate hooks for
adding things and removing things.
So that things that are bound to the
array, things that are, like an each for
example can be informed that
they need to update themselves.
So in this case you will want to get
an array, and then operate on that array.
So here you can see that I start
out with a two component name.
And I can print it out and
prove that I can get the array and
that the typical array methods
that you're used to work.
And then I used popObject which
is a KVO-compliant method.
KVO means key value observer.
So that means that things that
are observing this array will
be notified that something has changed.
And then when I attempt to print the same
thing we can see that I've removed
an object.
Just be aware of this because you can, if
you just start directly manipulating with
push you may not get the updates
you're expecting to get.
>> Speaker 3: So those are all
the functions you'll find in the class?
>> Mike North: If you want to see in this
case, in this specific example if you
wanted the complete set I would
look at Ember.MutableArray.
Right, so there's Ember.Array
which is not necessarily mutable,
and then there's MutableArray
which contains a variety of KVO
compliant methods that you
can use to manipulate.
All right, so I'm just gonna free-form
a little bit to illustrate how these
things fit together, and
this has nothing to do with the example.
But I just want to flesh
it out a little bit and
show you some actual use before
we start getting into this.
>> Mike North: So I'm gonna generate
a service called authentication.
And I'm gonna turn my mirroring off so
I don't code like super slowly.
[LAUGH] All right and
pardon the swiping back and forth.
So we're gonna generate a service and
actually this should be fine.
We already have things
that can handle actions.
All right, so I'm gonna go to my code and
look at,
>> Mike North: Let's close all my stuff.
So we've got a new folder here that
wasn't there before called Services and
if we look at the file, it's just giving
me a nice little thing to start with.
I'm gonna add an array, records.
>> Mike North: And then I'm gonna
go to a route that currently
isn't returning anything
from its model hook.
>> Mike North: Actually we can just
do this a little bit differently.
>> Mike North: So instead of controller,
I'm gonna use this trick where
we add something to make it
available to the template.
And what do we do when we
set up the controller first?
Super.
>> Mike North: All right, and
now it's time to inject this service
onto the route so that this route will
have access to this shared object
that has an array I'm interested in.
And the way that works is.
>> Mike North: Just that.
Earlier I said the name was optional.
Passing a name into this
function here is optional.
If you don't pass a name in the property
key itself will be used as the name.
So this is equivalent to that, but
we're going convention
over configuration style.
All right and now I'm just gonna
just do controller set records.
>> Mike North: And we'll do,
>> Mike North:
this.get('authentication.records')
>> Mike North: And I'm actually gonna put
something in there just for fun.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna go
into the org template and
I'm gonna use a cool little
debugging trick here.
This is the equivalent of console.log.
Keep in mind,
your templates are updated dynamically.
Don't expect your log to be hold over,
and over, and over, and
over again cuz things may
not work the way you expect.
So, we're gonna drill into
the correct page, right?
I'm in the org wrap template here.
And so now I'm looking at, this means
that this template will be active.
In fact the word Facebook is
coming from this h4 here.
And I just want to point out that
log records is showing up here
as you know in the console.
And you can look at it and see that this
is in fact the property from the service.
>> Mike North: So I'm gonna each over it.
>> Mike North: As record.
>> Mike North: And we'll do another ul.
>> Mike North: All right, and so
now we should get, there we go, one.
So now,
I want to add a span here with an action.
>> Mike North: And I'm gonna call
it addTwoToRecords or better yet.
>> Mike North: All right,
so this is the span.
And just an interesting side note,
you can see that there is
some indication that an action
has been bound to this span.
You can see it right
as a dom an attribute.
So if I click it.
>> Mike North: We're gonna
get an error message.
And Ember is telling me that this action
bubbled up and nothing handled it.
And the reason is,
I haven't implemented it in the route yet.
So if I go to routes and
I add an action here.
>> Mike North: And I add this action
here and we'll call it value.
>> Mike North: Alert to start.
And look, now we're receiving
a click event, and in fact.
>> Mike North: We're passing
along the data as well.
That argument to the action
is being passed along.
That's what val is.
And so now,
to actually add this to the array
you just do this.get('authentication').
And add a similar looking object.
>> Speaker 4: You gotta do records,
allocation.records?
>> Mike North: You're correct, so
that would have just added it directly to
the service which would have been bad.
And I click this, and we see Two pop up.
And in fact I'm adding similar
objects over and over and over again.
So what this should hopefully illustrate
is I can access properties using this.get.
I can kind of have this object,
this service here, and have that store
some data and if I wanted to make
this available on multiple rounds
they're all sharing the same instance.
It's a singleton.
And then finally I set
up an action binding so
that my route can handle this action and
do something about it.
So that make sense how those things kind
of fit together in what I showed you?
>> Speaker 5: How do you do an action
other than the default of click?
>> Mike North: Like what?
>> Speaker 5: Like keyup or something,
anything other than the default.
Like resize the browser.
>> Mike North: So
resize the browser is an interesting one.
In that case, you'll only have
a resize event on window right that's
the only thing that's
gonna fire that event.
And that's a great example of a service
where you could have one event
listener for
a window that is shared across anything
that needs to know about resizing.
Instead of having every single component
that wants to try to be responsive,
each independently attaching listeners.
That gets quite messy and, depending
on what kind of component you're using,
like if the table cell sparkline,
that can be very expensive.
And in terms of like a hover event or
something, so
there are other ways to bind actions.
I'd like us to start here, but
I will not let that go unanswered.